                        At the Foot of the Hill


Grandfather Huxley was a relic in the family. He had been handed down
for many years, from father to son, along with the brass andirons and
the mahogany settle. Unfortunately, although the last two pieces of
family property were more and more appreciated the older they grew,
almost the reverse was true with the old man.

When his daughter had died, in late middle life, she willed the family
homestead—and her father, who had built it—to her son. The old man was
seventy-five then, and his wife had been dead a dozen years. The
grandson was kindly enough; to his mother’s father he gave a comfortable
room and a half contemptuous kindliness which showed itself in a total
disregard of the old man’s politics and an evident idea that at
threescore and fifteen one should lose all interest in this world and
prepare for the next.

If Grandfather Huxley rebelled, he said nothing. He began to take the
evening paper upstairs after the family had finished with it, and to
spend a great deal of time polishing the sword he had carried in the
Mexican War.

Old people as a rule have few possessions. One by one they dispose of
unnecessary things. The belle of fifty years ago, who took a dozen
trunks and boxes with her to make a month’s visit, at seventy-five
generally has an old-fashioned bureau full of necessaries, and, locked
away in a little trunk, a handful of letters and sentimental trifles.
And so with Grandfather Huxley: the possessions of a lifetime had
dwindled to a huge upholstered chair, with which he defiantly refused to
part, and his old sword.

The sword hung in its scabbard just across from the old man’s bed,
where, in the sleepless hours that come to age, he could lie and dream
about it. From much tramping and dragging the scabbard was worn away at
one corner; it was that corner which gave Grandfather Huxley his dreams
of long-ago marches through cactus plains and desert, his nightmares of
long-ago thirst and heat.

Below the sword was his wife’s picture. There was another portrait of
her in the room; a photograph taken when her cheeks were furrowed and
her thin, white hair parted and crimped; but oddly enough, he never
looked at that one. He was very, very old, and he lived in his youth.
Everything between was hazy and dim. The picture at which he looked was
that of a girl, a little old water-color of a girl with thoughtful eyes
and frivolous hair.

After his ninetieth birthday Grandfather Huxley became abnormally
sensitive. Sometimes he could hear scraps of conversation about him.

“And how is the old man to-day? It’s almost uncanny, isn’t it?”

“Oh, he’s always just the same. But in the nature of things he won’t be
with us very long.”

One day some army officers dined at the house. Grandfather Huxley
polished his sword until it glittered, and fixed his white neckcloth
with trembling fingers. At the table the conversation turned to things
military, and the old man, filled with fire, told of that wonderful
campaign of ’47. The officers listened respectfully—they were gallant
fellows; but when Grandfather Huxley dropped back in his chair, he heard
the apologetic voice of his great-granddaughter Ellen across the table.

“He’s a dear old soul,” she said, “but getting childish now; go on with
what you were saying.”

After dinner the old man went upstairs. He took the shining sword from
his bed and fingered it lovingly.

“I guess you and I have lived past our time,” he said huskily, and then
he reached for his handkerchief and polished away carefully a spot of
moisture that might have been a tear.

That night an idea seized him. He was of no use in the world; no one
depended on him, no one needed him. He had lived twenty-three years past
his allotted time; perhaps the good Lord had forgotten him. There could
be no harm in taking a life that was nothing but a burden. And so, the
next day, he began his pitifully few preparations. He sorted out his
letters, and, finding none that he cared to have profaned by alien eyes,
he burned them all. He went over his wardrobe, and decided that Mike,
the gardener, should have his winter coat.

When it came to his most cherished possession—the sword—doubts
assailed him; so few were worthy of the honor. Finally, however, he
decided to give it to Ellen’s husband. After all, they had been kind to
him; it was not their fault that they lived in a future in which he
could have no share, and that he lived in a past which they had never
known. So he wrote a little card, “To my granddaughter Ellen’s husband,”
and tied it to the scabbard.

His preparations were made now. The sleeping-mixture stood on his
bedroom table—an overdose; and when Ellen came back from the theater
that night he would be asleep, as he should have been long ago.

He put on a clean neckerchief, and, sitting down in his big chair with
the sword on his knees, listened for the slamming of the hall door
below. The little wooden clock on the mantel, with the queer pink roses
on the face, marked eight, five minutes past, ten minutes past; and
still the family had not gone out. The old man sat and thought—thought
of the day he was married; of long-ago Christmases and rows of little
stockings; of children that had never lived to grow up; and then, with
the sword before him, of Buena Vista and Monterey.

After a time, he began to feel hungry. He remembered that there had been
cream cakes for dinner, and that he had refused them. They were very
nice, those little cream cakes—but then, after all, what did it matter?
If they would only go out——

Grandfather Huxley sat looking at the picture hanging under the unfaded
spot on the wall-paper which marked the sword’s resting-place. After a
little, the picture faded and grew misty in outline. The old man’s head
dropped on his chest, and he was asleep. The fire burned to a dull red,
bursting now and again into a smoking jet of flame, shining on the sword
across the old man’s knees, on the bottle beside the bed, and the
narrow, dropping chin of the sleeper.

He wakened finally, with a start. The crust over the smoldering coals
had fallen in, and the room was bright. From somewhere below was audible
a faint, creaking cry, a wail that beat against the ear insistently,
that paused for a second, to go on with fresh vigor.

Grandfather Huxley looked at the clock. It was ten thirty, so Ellen was
not at home. He listened for Nora’s step. Hearing no one, he got up
heavily and went to the head of the stairs. The cries kept on, longer
now, with fewer intervals for breath, and with an occasional hoarse note
of infantile rage.

The old man lost his look of indecision; he turned back into the room,
and fumbled for his slippers. Then, with an agility that no one in the
house suspected, he went down-stairs to the nursery.

The wicker structure of the baby’s bed was vibrant with its occupant’s
rage. From among the dotted Swiss rufflings and blue ribbons Grandfather
Huxley extracted his great-grandchild, and gathered him into his empty
old arms. The baby quieted at once; his wrinkled face relaxed, and he
settled comfortably, seeming to recognize the practised touch of hands
that had handled, on occasion, three generations of babies.

It was an hour later when Ellen came home. She tiptoed upstairs ahead of
her husband; then she paused, and with her finger on her lips cautioned
him to silence. The oldest and the youngest member of the family sat
before the fire, in dreamy, open-eyed content. When she saw they were
awake, Ellen went over, and, stooping down, kissed first the baby, then
the old man.

“He wakened, and Nora must have been asleep,” said Grandfather Huxley
apologetically.

Ellen slipped her hand into his with a grateful little pressure.

“What should we do without you?” she said impulsively. “This family
without you would be a ship without a keel, wouldn’t it?”

Grandfather Huxley smiled, the first time for a week. Ellen got up and
went toward the door.

“I’m going to bring you something to eat. You ate no dinner at all, and
there are some of those little cream cakes left. Perhaps, if you eat
something, you won’t need the sleeping medicine.”

Grandfather Huxley choked.

“I’m going to throw that stuff away, every drop of it,” he said firmly.

Left alone, he gathered the youngster closer in his arms.

“So the old man’s of some use after all,” he mused. “A ship without a
keel, eh?”

A little later, Ellen and her husband, in the butler’s pantry below,
stopped to listen. Grandfather Huxley was singing to the baby, and down
the stairs came the stirring words of “The Sword of Bunker Hill,” sung
in a thin, tremulous old voice.

                                               _Mary Roberts Rinehart_
                                